README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="./banner.jpg" alt="LPS logo">
</h1>

# LPS - Life Particle Simulator

LPS is a particle simulator that allows users to simulate particles behavior with simple rules in a 2D environment. Key features include:
- Fast simulation computation using GPU acceleration.
- Real-time visualization of particle interactions.
- Easy-to-use interface for setting up simulations and viewing results.
- Written in C++, Cuda and GDScript.

To learn more, read the user guide in the [docs](./docs/USER_GUIDE.md) folder.

## Hardware Requirements
- A computer with a CUDA-capable GPU (NVIDIA).
- With the actual build settings, a computer with a Linux OS is required. (Windows and MacOS might work with some adjustments in the SConstruct file).

## Simulator access
You can access the simulator by cloning this repository and building the project using SCons or an executable file provided in the releases section.

### Building from Source
Requirements:
* Linux OS :
    * GCC/G++
    * NVCC
    * SCons build system
    * Godot Engine (for the GUI)
* Windows OS (not tested) :
    * MSVC
    * NVCC
    * SCons build system
    * Godot Engine (for the GUI)

Note : You might need to adjust your C++ compiler version to match the NVCC supported version.


1. Clone the repository :
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/l-christen/life-particle-simulator.git
   cd life-particle-simulator
    ```
2. Retrieve Godot-cpp submodule :
    ```bash
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
    ```
3. Build Godot-cpp dynamic libraries :
    ```bash
    cd native/godot-cpp
    scons platform="linux/windows" target="template_debug/template_release"
    cd ..
    ```
4. Build the GDExtension dynamic library :
    ```bash
    scons platform="linux/windows" target="template_debug/template_release"
    ```
5. Open Godot Engine and load the project located in `./godot`.
6. Run the project or export it as an executable.

### Using Pre-built Executable (Linux only)
1. Go to the [releases]()
2. Download the latest release for Linux.
3. Extract the downloaded file. The executable need to be in the same folder as the .pck file.
4. Run the executable.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License, see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

README : Updated with project inspiration.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="./banner.jpg" alt="LPS logo">
</h1>

# LPS - Life Particle Simulator

LPS is a particle simulator that allows users to simulate particles behavior with simple rules in a 2D environment. This project is inspired by Brainxyz's video, which you can find [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Kx4Y9TVMGg&t=127s). 

Key features include:
- Fast simulation computation using GPU acceleration.
- Real-time visualization of particle interactions.
- Easy-to-use interface for setting up simulations and viewing results.
- Written in C++, Cuda and GDScript.

To learn more, read the user guide in the [docs](./docs/USER_GUIDE.md) folder.

## Hardware Requirements
- A computer with a CUDA-capable GPU (NVIDIA).
- With the actual build settings, a computer with a Linux OS is required. (Windows and MacOS might work with some adjustments in the SConstruct file).

## Simulator access
You can access the simulator by cloning this repository and building the project using SCons or an executable file provided in the releases section.

### Building from Source
Requirements:
* Linux OS :
    * GCC/G++
    * NVCC
    * SCons build system
    * Godot Engine (for the GUI)
* Windows OS (not tested) :
    * MSVC
    * NVCC
    * SCons build system
    * Godot Engine (for the GUI)

Note : You might need to adjust your C++ compiler version to match the NVCC supported version.


1. Clone the repository :
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/l-christen/life-particle-simulator.git
   cd life-particle-simulator
    ```
2. Retrieve Godot-cpp submodule :
    ```bash
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
    ```
3. Build Godot-cpp dynamic libraries :
    ```bash
    cd native/godot-cpp
    scons platform="linux/windows" target="template_debug/template_release"
    cd ..
    ```
4. Build the GDExtension dynamic library :
    ```bash
    scons platform="linux/windows" target="template_debug/template_release"
    ```
5. Open Godot Engine and load the project located in `./godot`.
6. Run the project or export it as an executable.

### Using Pre-built Executable (Linux only)
1. Go to the [releases]()
2. Download the latest release for Linux.
3. Extract the downloaded file. The executable need to be in the same folder as the .pck file.
4. Run the executable.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License, see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
